Rename protocol to network version (#63)
LiskHQ/lips: proposals/lip-0007.md

Status: Active
Type: Informational
Created: 2018-09-14
Updated: 2020-06-22
```

## Abstract

> This LIP proposes a versioning system for Lisk Core, Lisk SDK and any white label blockchain application created using Lisk SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This LIP proposes a versioning system for Lisk Core, Lisk SDK and any blockchain application created using the Lisk SDK.
```

One which makes the clear distinction between software implementation and blockchain protocol changes.

The software implementation changes to the Lisk Core and Lisk SDK are reflected through a semantic versioning scheme (https://semver.org/), relying on a 3 digit notation **(MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH)** to indicate major, minor and patch level changes.

> The changes to Lisk protocol are additionally reflected using a 2 digit notation **(H.S)** to indicate chain and network compatibility, and whether the release will introduce a hard or soft fork event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a specific blockchain network, its protocol version is represented using a 2 digit notation **(H.S)** to indicate chain and network compatibility, and whether the release will introduce a hard or soft fork event.
```

Reviewer: I think the important think here is that we don't version the Lisk protocol, but the specific network.

> The protocol version for a specific blockchain network, denoted by *network version*, is represented reflected using a 2 digit notation **(H.S)** to indicate chain and network compatibility, and whether the release will introduce a hard or soft fork event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The protocol version for a specific blockchain network, denoted by *network version*, is represented by a 2 digit notation **(H.S)** to indicate chain and network compatibility, and whether the release will introduce a hard or soft fork event.
```

Reviewer: The word `reflected` was not removed.

## Specification

### A. Network Versioning

> The network version will be denoted by two digits, **H.S**. The first digit, **H**, depends on the number of hard forks. More precisely, **H** is incremented with every hard fork. **S** represents the number of soft forks since the last hard fork.  We define the initial network version 1.0 to be the one that was implemented by Lisk Core 1.0.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The network version will be denoted by two digits, **H.S**. The first digit, **H**, depends on the number of hard forks. More precisely, **H** is incremented with every hard fork. **S** represents the number of soft forks since the last hard fork.  The default initial network version of any blockchain created with the Lisk SDK is 1.0.
```
